---
author: admin
categories:
- Non-Technical
date: 2025-01-09
tags:
- video
- tv
- youtube
- yearly review
title: '2024 Videos'
status: draft
---

Here’s all the video I watched in 2024. Arbitrarily, we'll say I recommend anything rated 4 or higher. Also, my opinions about shows are bad.

**Movies:**

- (3/5) The Ambassador (2011): This wasn't nice to watch or to have made, but it really made me think.
- (2/5) Bridesmaids (2011): Forgettable.
- (5/5) **Bros (2022)**: A welcomely truthful look at gay dating.
- (4/5) **Dial M for Murder (1954)**: This really holds up well, and shows a different attitude toward police work and the truth than I think we have today.
- (4/5) **Doubt (2008)**: A guilty favorite. I decided to give a bunch of Meryl Streep movies a watch. My first encounter with Viola Davis, who is amazing in it.
- (3/5) The Help (2011): An enjoyable movie. Some problematic racism.
- (2/5) Jennifer's Body (2009): Too long, and forgettable.
- (2/5) The Kingsman (2014): Forgettable, and painfully unsubtle.
- (3/5) Lawrence of Arabia (1962): A great movie, but wow is it long. There's a quicksand scene that really ruined it for me.
- (5/5) **Misery (1990)**: Just as amazing as I remembered.
- (3/5) The Whole Nine Yards (2000): I had a big crush on Amanda Peet for a day after watching the movie, but I don't remember the plot now.
- (4/5) **Wolfwalkers (2020)**: I got to watch this with a professional animator. It was really interesting to learn about how some of the art got done. 5/5 for art, 3/5 for story--it was a little too dumbed down for the kiddos.

**Live-action TV:**

- (3/5) ABC Murders: A mini-series about now-retired detective Hercule Poirot
- (0/5) Big Bang Theory: The later seasons suck ass.
- (0/5) The Boys: The first season was bad, and it got worse. Very problematic, and bad at addressing it.
- (4/5) Community: A classic, at this point.
- (3/5) Culinary Class War: I was impressed by this, though I wish it took itself a little less seriously at times, and whittled down the competetition faster among the top chefs.
- (1/5) Fargo: This show completely misses the point of the original movie. Good guys should be actually nice (and probably skilled), bad guys should be petty, lazy, and unlikeable. Instead the TV series is filled with anti-heroes who are supposed to be cool. Watch the movie instead.
- (4/5) **Fisk**: A great little show
- (2/5) Friends: I don't really think I get the appeal
- (4/5) **Game Changer**: Excellent game show
- (2/5) House of Cards (UK): Amusing show, and the premise makes a lot more sense than the US version, without spoiling.
- (3/5) It's Always Sunny: Problematic humor aside, It's Always Sunny does an impressive job of staying fresh for such a long-running show.
- (3/5) Legion: A very strong start with good acting. But, it dragged on and on. Should have been one season.
- (2/5) Red Dwarf: A go-to example of how to produce on a budget. Limited sets and actors, used well.
- (3/5) Squid Game: The second season. Doesn't end, this is half a season. I was glad it departed from the "Kaiji" plot where season 2 would be a repeat of season 1.

**Animated TV (western):**

- (2/5) American Dad: Junk food. I don't remember watching it this year.
- (5/5) **Bob's Burgers**: One of the best shows on television. Unique, genuine humor and characters, and stays consistently fresh.
- (3/5) Central Park: I'm sure some people out there will love this show, but it was too musical and new-yorky for me.
- (3/5) Futurama: Yes, they're making more Futurama! The new episodes are... fine. They're trying really hard to be topical in a way that will age horribly.
- (4/5) **Great North**: Despite a clear effort to make a screencap look like Bob's Burgers, they actually have their own style and I think this is a really nice show.
- (3/5) Infinity Train: Original, but I forgot all about it afterwards.
- (2/5) King of the Hill: I think this was really good at the time, but some of the voice acting could use updating by today's standards.
- (1/5) Regular Show: Junk food.
- (1/5) Solar Opposites: Junk food.

**Anime:**

- (1/5) 7th Time Loop: Fairly forgettable snow clone. They do a decent job pacing it quickly.
- (3/5) Bottom-Tier Character Tamazaki: A second season came out. I didn't enjoy it as much as the first.
- (3/5) Delicious in Dungeon: I've enjoyed what I've seen, but I haven't even seen a whole season yet.
- (1/5) High Card: Bleh.
- (2/5) Jojo (first series): The later series I enjoyed a lot, but the first has a lot of what I'd call skippable filler.
- (2/5) Jujutsu Kaisen: Pretty enjoyable, but starting to feel junk-foody.
- (3/5) Migi and Dali: This series is the weirdest thing I saw this year, and for anime that's saying a lot. Skip the opening before the first episode, it has spoilers.
- (3/5) Ping Pong: Enjoyable animation, short. Maybe still a little long for me.
- (?/5) Ranma ½ (2024): The new animation style is much better than the old series. I'm very impressed, but I've only seen one or two episodes.
- (2/5) Ron Kamonohashi's Forbidden Deductions: Enjoyable but dumb.
- (2/5) Shangri-La Frontier: I forget what this is about and I'm pretty sure I watched it twice.
- (4/5) **Spy x Family**: This is great for the whole family. Slows down a lot after the first season.
- (2/5) Undead Unluck: Another weird one. Points for originality, but there's not a lot to recommend it except the art and characters.
- (4/5) **Under Ninja**: I really liked the originality of this show. I got the same vibes as shows like "Welcome to the NHK".
